Add the Metric pattern page to the site (#2821)
jpmorganchase/salt-ds: site/docs/patterns/metric.mdx

---
title: Metric
layout: DetailPattern
aliases:
  - /salt/patterns/metric
data:
  resources:
    [
      { href: "https://storybook.saltdesignsystem.com/?path=/story/patterns-metric--metric", label: "Examples" },
      { href: "https://www.figma.com/file/TI8zR16jnisL4W7ANedtUJ/(WIP)-Metric?type=design&node-id=652-3336&mode=design&t=UpxMBoYUQ8vMxz6z-0", label: "Metric examples", internal: true },
    ]
---

> Metric is a pattern that displays an important number value prominently. Indicators or labels can be added to help provide context to the presented value.

Author: is it okay to just add examples to the next section (under when to use it)

  <Diagram
    src="/img/patterns/metric/metric.png"
    alt="Two example metrics displaying positive and negative indicators."
    contentPosition="top"
    border
  />

We provide design guidance for using Salt [Icon](/salt/components/icon), [Link](/salt/components/link), [Stack Layout](/salt/components/stack-layout) and [Text](/salt/components/text) components to achieve the pattern. You can also find implementation examples in the [Storybook](https://storybook.saltdesignsystem.com/?path=/story/patterns-metric--metric).

## When to use it

> Use the pattern to give more prominence to a key measure. Metrics are often used as building blocks in dashboards. They effectively direct users to key information that may otherwise be lost within the content, particularly when multiple numerical values are displayed.

Author: ```suggestion
Use the pattern to give more prominence to a key measure. Metrics are often used as building blocks in dashboards. They effectively direct users to key information that may otherwise be lost within the content, particularly when multiple numerical values are displayed. Metrics can encompass a broad range of quantitative data, such as financial statistics, performance indicators and user engagement.
```
@yunjungyeh what do you think of these examples?

> Multiple metrics can be included in your UI, and you can indicate hierarchy if necessary.

Author: ```suggestion
You can add multiple metrics to your UI, and you can use different sizes to indicate hierarchy when dealing with multiple metrics of varying importance.
```

<ExampleContainer type="positive" customPillText="Best practices">
  - Consider placing Metric pattern higher up in your layout to further emphasize their importance.

>   - Never leave the user guessing how to interpret your Metric. Make sure you provide enough context, and use subtitles and indicators if they’ll help minimize ambiguity.

Author: ```suggestion
  - Never leave the user guessing how to interpret a metric. Make sure you provide enough context, and use subtitles and indicators, such as a green arrow, if they’ll help minimize ambiguity.
```

>   - Never leave the user guessing how to interpret your Metric. Make sure you provide enough context, and use subtitles and indicators if they’ll help minimize ambiguity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Never leave the user guessing how to interpret a Metric. Make sure you provide enough context, and use subtitles and indicators (green/red arrows) if they’ll help minimize ambiguity.
```

  - Keep titles and values as short and concise as possible. Round or truncate values to significant figures, and use common abbreviations instead of spelling out words.
  - Avoid having more than five Metrics in single dashboard view. They may clutter your screen and overwhelm your user with too much information.
</ExampleContainer>

## How to build it

Metric is comprised of a single number value and a title and can be orientated vertically or horizontally.

Metric comes in three sizes—small, medium and large. This is achieved by changing the Metric’s value text style to display 1, display 2 or display 3. Those are available in both horizontal and vertical layouts.

<ExampleContainer type="positive" customPillText="Best practices">
  - Consider using the same orientation when displaying multiple Metrics, for greater visual consistency.
</ExampleContainer>

### Vertical Metric

By default, it's arranged vertically with the key value beneath the title.

#### Large

> 

Author: I've added some description to the images - please lmk what you think

> 

Author: thank you for reviewing!!

  <Diagram
    src="/img/patterns/metric/vertical-large.png"
    alt="Example showing large metric with vertical layout."
    contentPosition="top"
    border
  />

#### Medium

  <Diagram
    src="/img/patterns/metric/vertical-medium.png"
    alt="Example showing medium metric with vertical layout."
    contentPosition="top"
    border
  />

#### Small

  <Diagram
    src="/img/patterns/metric/vertical-small.png"
    alt="Example showing small metric with vertical layout."
    contentPosition="top"
    border
  />

> ### Horizontal Metric
> 
> You can configure the Metric component to have a horizontal orientation, if that's more suitable for your layout. Make sure you adjust the margin if you are varying the sizes.

Author: ```suggestion
### Horizontal metric
	
You can configure the metric to have a horizontal orientation if it's more suitable for your layout. Make sure you adjust the margin if you are varying the sizes.
```

yeah don't need component here

#### Large

  <Diagram
    src="/img/patterns/metric/horizontal-large.png"
    alt="Example showing large metric with horizontal layout."
    contentPosition="top"
    border
  />

#### Medium

  <Diagram
    src="/img/patterns/metric/horizontal-medium.png"
    alt="Example showing medium metric with horizontal layout."
    contentPosition="top"
    border
  />

#### Small

  <Diagram
    src="/img/patterns/metric/horizontal-small.png"
    alt="Example showing small metric with horizontal layout."
    contentPosition="top"
    border
  />

### Subtitle and subvalue

> In addition to the title, you can display a supporting subtitle and/or subvalue in the Metric pattern. This information can be used to provide more context, and improve users' comprehension of your Metric value and its impact.

Author: @yunjungyeh I'm not sure what examples to add here

> In addition to the title, you can display a supporting subtitle and/or subvalue in the metric pattern. You can use this to provide more context and improve users' comprehension of your metric value and its impact.

Author: ```suggestion
In addition to the title, you can display a supporting subtitle and/or subvalue in the metric pattern. You can use this to provide more context and improve users' comprehension of your metric value and its impact, such as whether it is positive or negative. Consider including past data, average, threshold or target values, or comparable high or low values.
```

Author: @mikearildbrown how is this if we also delete the example below the diagram?

---
title: Metric
layout: DetailPattern
aliases:
  - /salt/patterns/metric
data:
  resources:
    [
      { href: "https://storybook.saltdesignsystem.com/?path=/story/patterns-metric--metric", label: "Examples" },
      { href: "https://www.figma.com/file/TI8zR16jnisL4W7ANedtUJ/(WIP)-Metric?type=design&node-id=652-3336&mode=design&t=UpxMBoYUQ8vMxz6z-0", label: "Metric examples", internal: true },
    ]
---

Metric is a pattern that displays an important number value prominently. You can add indicators or labels to help provide context to the presented value.

  <Diagram
    src="/img/patterns/metric/metric.png"
    alt="Two example metrics displaying positive and negative indicators."
    contentPosition="top"
    border
  />

We provide design guidance for using Salt [`Icon`](/salt/components/icon), [`Link`](/salt/components/link), [`StackLayout`](/salt/components/stack-layout) and [`Text`](/salt/components/text) components to build the pattern. You can also find implementation examples in the [Storybook](https://storybook.saltdesignsystem.com/?path=/story/patterns-metric--metric).

## When to use it

> Use the pattern to give more prominence to a key measure. Metrics are often used as building blocks in dashboards. They direct users to key information that they may otherwise overlook, particularly when multiple numerical values are displayed. Metrics can encompass a broad range of quantitative data, such as financial statistics, performance indicators and user engagement.

Reviewer 2: key measurement's'

> You can add multiple metrics to your UI, and you can use different sizes to indicate hierarchy when dealing with multiple metrics of varying importance.

Reviewer 2: Not sure you need the first bit, probs just need the but about using different sizes

Reviewer 3: This sounds like it should be a best practice and be rephrased to something like:

```suggestion
When dealing with multiple metrics of varying importance you can use different sizes to indicate hierarchy.
```
